*dirbuf.txt*	directory buffer

==============================================================================
OVERVIEW                                                               *dirbuf*

Dirbuf provides Neovim with an editable directory buffer. This buffer is a
regular text buffer with some metadata behind the scenes allowing you to
leverage all of Neovim's built-in text editing capabilities to efficiently
manipulate and edit file directories.

To create a new file, add a new line containing the name of the file. To
create an empty directory, add a "/" at the end.

To delete a file or directory, delete its line.

To copy a file or directory, copy its line and give it a new name.

To rename a file or directory, change its name in the directory buffer.

When you save the buffer, Dirbuf applies the necessary filesystem operations
to get the directory into the desired state. It does this by comparing the
snapshot it took of the directory when the buffer was created to the state of
the buffer upon saving. Using the hashes at the end of every line, Dirbuf can
tell what objects are new (i.e. they do not have a hash) and what objects have
changed (i.e. their hash does not match their name).

Because each Dirbuf buffer name is the literal directory path, you can run any
|:!| commands you want and prefix the filenames with |%|. For example, >
  :!sed 's/hi/ahoy/g' %pirate_script.txt -i

Dirbuf is designed to work with built-in Vim concepts as much as possible. Tim
Pope's plugins demonstrate this theme; more plugins should too. Re-use of
concepts multiplies the utility of those concepts; conversely if a plugin does
not reuse a concept, both that concept and the new one are made mutually less
valuable--the sum is less than the parts--because the user must learn or
choose from two slightly different things instead of one augmented system.

==============================================================================
MAPPINGS                                                       *dirbuf-mappings*

All mappings are listed with their <Plug> mapping and their default mapping.
If a mapping to the <Plug> version already exists, then the default mapping is
not made.

Global ~
    <Plug>(dirbuf_up)
    -               Opens the current file's directory or the [count]th parent
                    directory.

Buffer-local (filetype=dirbuf) ~
    <Plug>(dirbuf_up)
    -               Opens the current file's directory or the [count]th parent
                    directory.
    <Plug>(dirbuf_enter)
    <CR>            Opens file or directory at cursor.
    <Plug>(dirbuf_toggle_hide)
    gh              Toggles whether hidden files (i.e. dot files) are
                    displayed.

==============================================================================
COMMANDS                                                       *dirbuf-commands*

:Dirbuf                                                         *dirbuf-:Dirbuf*
    Opens the |current-directory|.

:Dirbuf {path}
    Opens the directory at {path}, or its parent if {path} is a file.
    To open the directory of the current file: >
        :Dirbuf %
<

==============================================================================
FUNCTIONS                                                     *dirbuf-functions*

dirbuf.setup({opts})                                            *dirbuf-setup()*
    Overwrites the default options with the options in the `opts` table.

    Example with all the default options: >
        require('dirbuf').setup {
            hash_padding = 2,
            show_hidden = true,
            sort_order = function(l, r)
                return l.fname:lower() < r.fname:lower()
            end,
        }
<

==============================================================================
OPTIONS                                                         *dirbuf-options*

|hash_padding| (default: `2`)
    Number of characters of padding between the file hashes and the longest
    filename. This must be an integer larger than 1.

|show_hidden| (default: `true`)
    Whether Dirbuf should display hidden files (i.e. "dot files") by default
    when opening new directory buffers. This can be changed locally per-buffer
    with the `gh` mapping.

|sort_order| (default: case-insensitive sorting by fnames)
    What order Dirbuf should sort the directory buffer in when it is created
    and refreshed.

    This must be a comparison function which takes two tables {left} and
    {right}, each describing a filesystem entry, which returns `true` when
    {left} should appear before (i.e. above) {right} in the directory buffer.

    Both of the tables {left} and {right} have the following fields
    Fields: ~
       {fname}  `string` containing the literal, unescaped name of the
                filesystem entry without any suffixes (e.g. a directory
                example/ would have an fname of "example")
       {ftype}  `string` describing the type of the filesystem entry, which
                must be one of "file", "directory", "link", "fifo", "socket",
                "char", or "block"
       {path}   `string` containing the full path of the filesystem entry
                using platform-specific directory separators (i.e. "\" on
                Windows and "/" on Linux and MacOS) without a suffix

==============================================================================
CREDITS                                                         *dirbuf-credits*

Dirbuf was initially conceived of as a Lua rewrite of the file manager plugin
Dirvish and eventually grew in scope to become an editable directory buffer
similiar to vidir. However, it still owes many of its ideas to Dirvish as well
as much of its literal Vimscript and help documentation.

==============================================================================
 vim:tw=78:ts=4:et:ft=help:norl:
